强制访问控制
强制访问控制（，缩写MAC）在计算机安全领域指一种由操作系统约束的存取控制，目标是限制主体或发起者访问或对对象或目标执行某种操作的能力。在实践中，主体通常是一个进程或线程，对象可能是文件、目录、TCP/UDP端口、共享内存段、I/O设备等。主体和对象各自具有一组安全属性。每当主体尝试访问对象时，都会由操作系统内核强制施行授权规则——检查安全属性并决定是否可进行访问。任何主体对任何物件的任何操作都将根据一组授权规则（也称策略）进行测试，决定操作是否允许。在数据库管理系统中也存在访问控制机制，因而也可以应用强制访问控制；在此环境下，对象为表、视图、过程等。

通过强制访问控制，安全策略由安全策略管理员集中控制；用户无权覆盖策略，例如不能给被否决而受到限制的文件授予访问权限。相比而言，自主访问控制（DAC）也控制主体访问对象的能力，但允许用户进行策略决策和/或分配安全属性。（传统Unix系统的用户、组和读-写-执行就是一种DAC。）启用MAC的系统允许策略管理员实现组织范围的安全策略。在MAC（不同于DAC）下，用户不能覆盖或修改策略，无论为意外或故意。这使安全管理员定义的中央策略得以在原则上保证向所有用户强制实施。
在历史上和传统上，MAC与（MLS）和专业的军用系统密切相关。在此环境中，MAC意味着高度严格以满足MLS系统的约束。但在最近，MAC已从MLS本身中发展出来，并变得更加主流。最近的MAC实现有诸如面向Linux的SELinux和AppArmor，以及面向Windows的强制完整性控制，它们使管理员得以关注没有严格或MLS约束时遇到的如网络攻击或恶意软件等问题。

历史上，MAC与作为保护美国等级信息的（MLS）手段密切相关。（TCSEC）就是就这一主题的开创性工作，其中将MAC定义为“基于对象中包含信息的敏感性（由标签表示）来显示对对象的访问途径以及对象访问这种敏感信息的授权”。MAC的早期实现有Honeywell的SCOMP、USAF SACDIN、NSA Blacker，以及的波音MLS LAN。
术语MAC中的“强制性”已经因其在军事系统中的使用而获得了特殊含义。在这方面，MAC意味着非常高的健壮性，确保控制机制能够抵抗任何类型的破坏，从而使他们能够执行由政府命令授权的访问控制，诸如面向美国等级信息的第12958号行政命令 。强制施行的保证性要求要高于商业应用，因此这不允许采用“尽力而为”的机制。MAC只接受能够绝对或者几乎绝对地保证任务执行的机制。这点对于不熟悉高保证策略的人来说可能很困难或者被假定为不切实际。

在某些系统中，用户有权决定是否向其他任何用户授予访问权限。为允许这点，所有用户都必须有所有数据的审查许可。这不是MLS系统所需必要条件。如果个人或进程可能被拒绝访问系统环境中的任何数据，则系统必须可信以强制执行MAC。由于可能存在各种级别的数据等级和用户许可，这也显示了健壮性的量化指标。例如，more robustness is indicated for system environments 包含划分等级的最高机密信息 and uncleared users than for one with Secret information and users cleared to at least Confidential. To promote consistency and eliminate subjectivity in degrees of robustness, an extensive scientific analysis and risk assessment of the topic produced a landmark benchmark standardization quantifying security robustness capabilities of systems and mapping them to the degrees of trust warranted for various security environments. 该结果记录于CSC-STD-004-85。 Two relatively independent components of robustness were defined: Assurance Level and Functionality. Both were specified with a degree of precision that warranted significant confidence in certifications based on these criteria.
The is based on this science and it intended to preserve the Assurance Level as and the functionality specifications as s. Of these two essential components of objective robustness benchmarks, only EAL levels were faithfully preserved. In one case, level C2 (not a MAC capable category) was fairly faithfully preserved in the Common Criteria, as the (CAPP). (MLS) Protection Profiles (such as MLSOSPP similar to B2) is more general than B2. They are pursuant to MLS, but lack the detailed implementation requirements of their predecessors, focusing more on objectives. This gives certifiers more subjective flexibility in deciding whether the evaluated product’s technical features adequately achieve the objective, potentially eroding consistency of evaluated products and making it easier to attain certification for less trustworthy products. For these reasons, the importance of the technical details of the Protection Profile is critical to determining the suitability of a product.
Such an architecture prevents an authenticated user or process at a specific classification or trust-level from accessing information, processes, or devices in a different level. This provides a containment mechanism of users and processes, both known and unknown (an unknown program (for example) might comprise an untrusted application where the system should monitor and/or control accesses to devices and files).
A few MAC implementations, such as 优利系统' project, were certified robust enough to separate Top Secret from Unclassified late in the last millennium. Their underlying technology became obsolete and they were not refreshed. Today there are no current implementations certified by to that level of robust implementation. However, some less robust products exist.

